Humanity has a lot of problems. Most of them are local and do not affect the global community but there are a few global issues. A global issue is an issue that affects every country in the world. People can clearly define them, however they are still not solved. One of the greatest challenges of our time is solving global problems.
The United Nations is the organization that defines these problems and takes measures to solve them. The United Nations is an example of cooperation of the world-leading countries. They want to make our world a better place.
So, what global issues do they solve? First, it is global warming. Our industrial activity causes a rise in the average temperature. It means that an average summer or winter day nowadays is warmer than it was a hundred years ago. Global warming is dangerous because it can cause ice melting. If glaciers melt, the sea level will rise, and most coastal cities and islands will be drowned.
Second, it is human impact on the environment. In some cities air pollution reached the point where it is dangerous for human health. Our plants, factories, cars produce a lot of CO2 and various pollutants.
Third, overpopulation. The population of our planet is 7.8 billion now, which is almost 8 times as much as it was two hundred years ago. It will keep growing, and the planet might just not be able to sustain that many inhabitants in the future. Overpopulation causes multiple problems including poverty. Did you know that 42 percent of people from Sub-Saharan Africa still live below the poverty line? The international poverty line is 1.9 dollars per day. People cannot fulfill their basic needs such as food, water and clothing.
These are the most discussed global problems nowadays. Their list might increase but all the problems are being worked on. Some countries decided to switch to alternative energy sources in the nearest future. Most countries at least recognize the problems.
In conclusion, I would like to say that not only the governments are responsible for our planet, but every single human as well. If we want to make the world a better place, we should realize that even small actions affect it.